Guadeloupe , known as Gwadloup in the local creole , and sometimes known as the Butterfly Island  on account of the shape of two of its major islands , is a group of islands in the eastern Caribbean , and is a French overseas department . 
It is located southeast of Puerto Rico . 
Pointe - à - Pitre : with its suburbs , it is the economic capital of Guadeloupe 
 
St François if you go at the eastern point of Guadeloupe , you will reach La Pointe des Chateaux , a scenery made of sand and rocks which have vaguely the shape of a castle . 
From there , you can look up at the islands La Désirade , Petite Terre , Marie Galante , Les Saintes , La Dominique but also have a perfect view of the islands Grande Terre and far away Basse Terre . 
L'Americano , bd Georges Mandel , 0590883899 : bar / restaurant offers free salsa courses on Saturdays and live performances some days . 
You will find all kind of bars . 
You can try Club Med , 0590854950 fax : 0590854959  for a one day all inclusive  for about € 46 , so it may be a good deal  . 
You can also go to Porte d'Enfer , a beautiful still stripe of sea between a scenery of reefs . 
From there , walk one hour along the cliff , and you will discover a Souffleur , kind of geyser due to the pressure of the sea . 
They are located at the same place . 
Here stands the biggest shopping mall of the island . 
Not too far from there , you can find a local bar / nightclub named Bik Kreyol , Beau Soleil , 0590258046 or 0590920648  . 
The building is typical , it 's a former warehouse . 
Do n't miss the spectacular waterfalls in the jungle of Basse - Terre  . 
Some are within 5 – 10 minutes walking distance from the nearest parking lot , some require at least 3 – 4 hours of hiking  . 
The local rum distilleries offer tours  which are certainly worth the while since rum production is a very integral part of Guadeloupe 's economy . 
And sampling the local rums is definitely worth the while . 
Even though they might not be the best way to get around the island , a ride on the bus is still an experience you should not miss . 
Cheap , full of locals , conducted by fearless drivers , you can enjoy the beautiful Caribbean panorama to the sound of Guadeloupean zouk music . 
Some routes are not good for passengers with weak stomachs . 
