Isfahan  is a city in central Iran , south of Tehran and is the capital of Isfahan Province . 
The Persians call it " Nesf - e - Jahan " , meaning " Half The World " . 
Due to its beautiful hand - painted tiling and magnificent public square , it is considered to be one of the most beautiful cities in the world . 
An ancient town and capital of Persia from 1598 to 1722 , it was long noted for its fine carpets and silver filigree . 
Today , textile and steel mills take their place . 
Its architecture , tree - lined boulevards and relaxed pace make it one of the highlights of Iran . 
Understand 
The city is 430 km south of Tehran at the foothills of the Zagros mountain range . 
The city enjoys a temperate climate and regular seasons . 
Isfahan is located on the main north - south and east - west routes crossing Iran . 
The city has an Armenian Quarter called Jolfa  established by Shah Abbas I in the 1600s after he destroyed the prosperous Armenian town of Julfa in Armenia and forced all of the Armenians to move to Persia , mostly to Isfahan . 
They were allocated land and rebuilt a prosperous community that was a key part of an Armenian trade network extending from Singapore and India to Venice and Amsterdam . 
Today the quarter still has many Armenian Churches , an Armenian school , shops and Armenian residents . 
Get in 
Isfahan International Airport or Isfahan Shahid Beheshti  was a military air base before the revolution . 
There are daily flights to Tehran and Mashhad in Iran . 
There are also flights to Damascus , Dubai , Kuwait and Istanbul . 
From the Airport you can take cab for c. IRR 200,000 to the city centre . 
Since most people are going there anyway , you can always ask people to share taxi . 
See 
The square contains two mosques , a palace , and the bazaar . 
The square is the largest historical public square in the world after Tiananmen Square in Beijing and it is a UNESCO World Heritage Site . 
The square is surrounded by buildings from the Safavid era . 
This a very popular place for locals to picnic on Friday and holiday evenings . 
1596 , dating from the Saffavid era , the avenue is the most historically famous in all of Persia . 
The stunning mosques of Isfahan are among the most beautiful and interesting in the world . 
Built during the Safavid period , it is an excellent example of Islamic architecture of Iran , and regarded as one of the masterpieces of Persian Architecture . 
It is registered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site . 
Its splendour is mainly due to the beauty of its seven - colour mosaic tiles and calligraphic inscriptions . 
One of the architectural masterpieces of Safavid Iranian architecture , this mosque is considered to be the most beautiful in Iran . 
The mosque was designed to be a private mosque for the royal family and therefore it does not have any minarets . 
There is a tunnel from the mosque to the Royal Palace , across the square . 
Started in AD 842 , this is the first Islamic building to adopt the four - courtyard layout of Sassanid palaces . 
The portal was covered in mud until it was discovered in 1956 . 
It is forty - eight meters high and there are seven floors , each accessible by a difficult spiral staircase . 
In the sixth floor music room , deep circular niches are found in the walls , having not only aesthetic value , but also acoustic . 
It is rich in naturalistic wall paintings by Reza Abbassi , the court painter of Shah Abbas I , and his pupils . 
There are floral , animal and bird motifs . 
1647 : It is called Palace of forty columns , as there are many columns , and in Iranian , 40 means many . 
Incidentally , there are twenty columns , and these are reflected in the pool in front , which might also account for its name . 
The function of this palace was for holding religious - national ceremonies and royal festivals and for receiving royal ambassadors and guests . 
It's Persian Gardens is one of nine inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List . 
Contains some spectacular battle murals . 
