Born 23 January 1928 Paris , France 
Died 31 July 2017  Paris , France 
Resting place Montmartre Cemetery , Paris , France 
Alma mater Conservatoire de Paris 
Occupation Actress , screenwriter , film director 
Years active 1947 – 2012 
Spouse Jean - Louis Richard  William Friedkin  
Children Jérôme Richard 
Jeanne Moreau  was a French actress , singer , screenwriter and director . 
She won the Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Actress for Seven Days ... Seven Nights  , the BAFTA Award for Best Foreign Actress for Viva Maria !  , and the César Award for Best Actress for The Old Lady Who Walked in the Sea  . 
She was also the recipient of several lifetime awards , including a BAFTA Fellowship in 1996 , Cannes Golden Palm in 2003 and César Award in 2008 . 
Moreau made her theatrical debut in 1947 , and established herself as one of the leading actresses of the Comédie - Française . 
She began playing small roles in films in 1949 , with impressive performances in the Fernandel vehicle Meurtres ?  and alongside Jean Gabin as a showgirl / gangster 's moll in the film Touchez pas au grisbi  . 
She achieved prominence as the star of Elevator to the Gallows  , directed by Louis Malle , and Jules et Jim  , directed by François Truffaut . 
Most prolific during the 1960s , Moreau continued to appear in films into her 80s . 
Moreau was born in Paris , the daughter of Katherine  , a dancer who performed at the Folies Bergère  , and Anatole - Désiré Moreau , a restaurateur  .   
Moreau 's father was French ; her mother was English , a native of Oldham , Lancashire , England  and of part Irish descent .    
Moreau 's father was Catholic and her mother , originally a Protestant , converted to Catholicism upon marriage .  
When a young girl , " the family moved south to Vichy , spending vacations at the paternal ancestral village of Mazirat , a town of 30 houses in a valley in the Allier . 
" It was wonderful there " , Moreau said . 
" Every tombstone in the cemetery was for a Moreau " . 
During the World War II , the family was split , and Moreau lived with her mother in Paris . 
Moreau ultimately lost interest in school at age 16 , and after attending a performance of Jean Anouilh 's Antigone , found her calling as an actor . 
She later studied at the Conservatoire de Paris . 
Her parents separated permanently while Moreau was at the conservatory and her mother , " after 24 difficult years in France , returned to England with Jeanne 's  sister , Michelle . "  
In 1947 , Moreau made her theatrical debut at the Avignon Festival . 
She debuted at the Comédie - Française in Ivan Turgenev 's A Month in the Country  and , by her 20s , was already one of leading actresses in the theatre 's troupe .  
After 1949 , she began appearing in films with small parts but continued primarily active in the theatre for several years — a year at the Théâtre National Populaire opposite among others Gérard Philipe and Robert Hirsch , then a breakout two years in dual roles in The Dazzling Hour by Anna Bonacci , then Jean Cocteau 's La Machine Infernale and others before another two - year run , this time in Shaw 's Pygmalion .  
From the late 1950s , after appearing in several successful films , she began to work with the emerging generation of French film - makers . 
Elevator to the Gallows  with first - time director Louis Malle was followed by Malle 's The Lovers  .  
Moreau went on to work with many of the best known New Wave and avant - garde directors .  
François Truffaut 's New Wave film Jules et Jim  , her biggest success internationally , is centered on her magnetic starring role .  
She also worked with a number of other notable directors such as Michelangelo Antonioni  , Orson Welles  , Luis Buñuel  , Elia Kazan  , Rainer Werner Fassbinder  , Wim Wenders  , Carl Foreman  , and Manoel de Oliveira  . 
In 1983 , she was head of the jury at the 33rd Berlin International Film Festival .  
In 2005 , she was awarded with the Stanislavsky Award at the 27th Moscow International Film Festival .  
Moreau was also a vocalist . 
She released several albums and once performed with Frank Sinatra at Carnegie Hall in 1984 .  
In addition to acting , Moreau worked behind the camera as a writer , director and producer .  
Her accomplishments were the subject of the film Calling the Shots  by Janis Cole and Holly Dale .  
