How to Make Vegan Cupcakes 
Here 's a great vegan cupcake recipe to use as a base for whatever flavored icing you want to add to it . 
They 're guaranteed to be light and fluffy and perfect for any occasion . 
Makes approx : 20 - 24 cupcakes : 
Preheat the oven to 180 o C / 350 o F . 
Prepare the muffin tray by adding cupcake holders / cases . 
Put to one side . 
Alternatively , use a silicone cupcake baking sheet with molded holes . 
Put the cider vinegar into a small bowl and add the soy milk . 
Stir this well and then put to one side . 
The mixture will now curdle and this is what should be happening . 
Stir together the flour , sugar , baking powder , baking soda and salt . 
If you want chocolate cupcakes , add cocoa  to this stage . 
Stir the oil and vanilla extract into the bowl containing the soy milk and vinegar . 
Mix together . 
Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and beat together  . 
Fill the muffin pan . 
Usually fill each paper cupcake holder with about 1/4 cup of batter . 
If you prefer larger cupcakes , then add a half a cup but make sure the muffin pan is larger and the cupcake holders are bigger . 
Bake for 18 - 20 minutes . 
If you can smell the cupcakes earlier , check to make sure they are n't browning earlier  . 
If you are n't certain , turn off the oven earlier and let them sit for a few more minutes rather than bake them into rocks . 
Wait for the pan to cool down . 
Place cupcakes onto a wire rack to cool . 
Ice the cupcakes . 
The flavor of icing or frosting can be improved by adding a little of your favorite juice to it instead of soy milk or water . 
Finished . 
Preheat the oven to 160 o C / 315 o F . 
If using cupcake cases , arrange on a baking sheet now . 
If using a silicone cupcake sheet , simply have it ready . 
Add the flour , cocoa powder , baking soda and pinch of salt to the mixing bowl . 
Mix to combine . 
Pour the soy milk , vinegar , sugar , oil and vanilla into another bowl . 
Whisk together well . 
Pour the liquid mixture into the flour mixture . 
Stir to combine thoroughly . 
Pour into the cupcake cases or cupcake holes . 
Place into the oven . 
Bake for 20 to 25 minutes . 
If they smell strongly earlier , test with a wooden skewer ; if it returns clean after sticking into a cupcake , they 're ready . 
Remove from the oven . 
Transfer the cupcakes to a wire cooling rack as quickly as possible when cool enough to handle . 
Let cool completely on the rack . 
Frost as desired . 
Add standard frosting or make vegan butter cream . 
You can add pureed fruit for delicious flavor changes . 
One small container of pureed fruit is sufficient for flavoring  
Try strawberry , apple , banana , apricot , peach etc. 
The cupcakes will not be as light and fluffy , however , so be prepared for a heavier cupcake if you add fruit but the added moisture content is a definite plus . 
Instead of using vegan sugar , you can replace it with equal parts maple sugar or rice syrup 
Instead of using vegetable oil , try substituting it for walnut or macadamia nut oils if they are available to you . 
Coconut oil also produces good results . 
And olive oil works fine if it 's all that 's left in the pantry . 
You can replace the plain soy milk with other flavors like chocolate or vanilla if you want to experiment with changing the flavor of the cupcakes . 
Experiment with the flavors of either recipe by replacing the vanilla extract with fragrant ingredients like neroli orange oil , rosewater , orange blossom water or coconut extract . 
