Matthew William Goode  is an English character actor . 
He made his screen debut in 2002 with ABC 's TV film feature Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister . 
His breakthrough role was in the romantic comedy , Chasing Liberty  , for which he received a nomination at Teen Choice Awards for Choice Breakout Movie Star - Male . 
He then appeared in a string of supporting roles in films like Woody Allen 's Match Point  , the German - British romantic comedy Imagine Me and You  , and the period drama Copying Beethoven  . 
He 's garnered praise for his performance as Charles Ryder in Julian Jarrold ’s adaptation of Evelyn Waugh 's Brideshead Revisited  , and as Ozymandias in the American neo - noir superhero film Watchmen  , based on DC Comics ' limited series of the same name . 
He then starred in romantic comedy Leap Year  and Australian drama Burning Man  , the latter earning him a nomination for Best Actor at the Film Critics Circle of Australia Awards . 
Other notable film roles include The Lookout  , A Single Man  , Cemetery Junction  , Stoker  , Belle  , The Imitation Game  and Self/less  . 
As well as appearing in films , Goode has appeared in numerous television shows . 
His most notable television roles include Henry Talbot in the final season of historical period drama Downton Abbey , and Finley " Finn " Polmar in the CBS legal drama The Good Wife . 
He also had a lead role in the critically acclaimed British mini-serial Dancing on the Edge , as music journalist Stanley Mitchell , for which he earned a nomination for Best Actor in a Miniseries or a Television Film at the Satellite Awards . 
In 2017 , Goode portrayed Antony Armstrong - Jones , 1st Earl of Snowdon in the Netflix biographical drama series The Crown , for which he received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Guest Star in a Drama Series .  
He currently stars in Sky One 's fantasy - romance series , A Discovery of Witches , as Professor Matthew Clairmont and is filming Matthew Vaughn 's Kingsman prequel , The King 's Man . 
Goode has been in a relationship with Sophie Dymoke since 2005 . 
They married in 2014 .    
They have two daughters , Matilda Eve Goode   and Teddie Eleanor Rose Goode  , and a son , Ralph Goode  . 
Goode played Peter Lynley , the brother of Inspector Lynley in the BBC production Inspector Lynley Mysteries : A Suitable Vengeance and co-starred in the TV film Confessions of an Ugly Stepsister , based on the Gregory Maguire novel of the same name and William Shakespeare 's play The Tempest . 
In 2004 , Goode made his American film debut opposite Mandy Moore in the romantic comedy Chasing Liberty . 
Goode was born in Exeter , Devon . 
His father , Anthony , was a geologist and his mother , Jennifer , is a nurse and amateur theatre director . 
Goode is the youngest of five children with a brother , two half - brothers , and a half - sister , television presenter Sally Meen , from his mother 's previous marriage . 
He grew up in the village of Clyst St. Mary , near Exeter .  
Goode was educated at Exeter School , an independent school in Exeter , Devon ,  followed by the University of Birmingham and London 's Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art . 
