Local municipalities in Italy ask taxes from religious schools 
In the past few days in Italy , several municipalities have started asking religious schools to pay taxes for property and local services , despite the resistance of the Catholic Church . 
Instituto Gonzaga , a catholic school in Milan . Image : Friedrichstrasse . 
The request of the municipalities results from the sentence of the Italian Supreme Court of Cassation on July 8 , recognising as legitimate the request of the Municipality of Livorno asking religious schools to pay property taxes . 
Requests have come from the Municipality of Bogliasco , next to Genova , and from the deputies of Movimento 5 Stelle  of the regional counsel of Lombardy . 
The first case is of the mayor Luca Pastorino that in last years received several refusals of his requests for payment because of the religious nursery school and retirement home . 
In the second case , the M5S party asks to the regional government to assure the local administrations of the region regularly apply the sentence of the Supreme Court . 
The case on which the Court has ruled was of the religious schools Santo Spirito and Immacolata in Livorno , Tuscany , to pay over 422,000 euros in arrears for the period from 2004 to 2009 . 
The request was advanced by the Municipality of Livorno in 2010 . 
The city reasoned , " because the users of the private schools pay a frequency fee , this kind of activity is considered as a commercial one "  ) . 
In 2014 the Italian municipal tax discipline has changed from the ICI system to the IMU system by the Monti government . 
A mean cost per student criterion is used to tax only the schools that receive a fee higher than the mean cost per student fixed by the State . 
The new law is not retroactive , so the taxes requested in arrears from 2006 to 2009 are under the ICI system . 
Minister of Education Stefania Giannini said a " more general reflection "  ) is needed . 
Claudio De Vincenti , undersecretary to the prime minister , said " a discussion table will be opened with the non-profit associations , religious association included "  ) . 
Undersecretary for Education Mr. Toccafondi says " many schools will increase their fees or they will quit . Then the State will have to find new resources to build new structures and manage them "  ) . 
Also the president of the Lombardy region , Roberto Maroni , has reacted by proposing some regional counter-measures to finance private schools . 
The secretary general of CEI  , Nunzio Galantino , has called the sentence " dangerous "  ) and " ideological "  ) : 
" We face a dangerous sentence . 
Who takes the decisions , do it with less ideology . 
Because I have the clear sensation that with this way of thinking , they wait the praise of some ideologized supporters . 
Indeed , they do n't understand what kind of good service private schools held "  ) . 
Italian secularist associations are concerned the Government will modify the law in order to maintain an exception for religious schools . 
The secularist magazine MicroMega describe the court 's judgement as historic . 
The Union of Rationalist Atheists and Agnostics  has launched a petition which now has more than 11,000 signatures , asking the government to respect and execute the sentence of the Supreme Court . 
It is also encouraging citizens to ask for application of the law in their local municipalities . 
