Get in 
For information specific to U.S. citizens see Americans in Cuba 
A tourist visa card  is necessary for travelers from most nations . 
This visa , which is really little more than a piece of paper on which you list your vital statistics , costs between 15 - 25 CUC  , depending on where purchased . 
It can be purchased at the Airport in Cuba on arrival , however it should be noted that many airlines will require a valid tourist visa card before boarding flights . 
It is usually valid for 30 days and can be extended once for another 30 days at any immigration office in Cuba  - beyond this you would need a flight out of Cuba within the extended visa period . 
Canadians are the exception , getting 90 days on arrival and can apply for a 90 day extension . 
Your passport needs to be valid at least six months past the end of your planned return . 
Canadian passports must be valid for at least one month beyond the date of expected departure  . 
From Canada , the tourist card is normally provided on the flight . 
It can also be purchased from most Latin American gateway airports if departing from there  . 
Please note that if departing from Europe  , you will require to have the visa before boarding the plane . 
Some times , the airline provides these at the airport , however check first that this is the case . 
Without a valid visa , boarding will be denied  . 
UK : Applying for the visa is a very simple process and can be done by post or in person at the Cuban embassy in London . 
When applying to the Cuban Consulate by post , there is a new charge introduced in 2011 which is a £ 25 for a non-personal transaction . 
If you can not go to the Cuban Consulate you may consider using VisaCuba  because it may be cheaper . 
Through them it may cost £ 20 in total per person . 
If you apply in person to the Cuban Consulate , you get the visa straight away . 
It can also be done through online agencies as mentioned before although they may be slightly more expensive  . 
Germany : You can obtain the tourist card through the Cuban embassy in post . 
Travel agencies may often offer cheaper and quicker services though . 
Regular tourists who renew their 30 day visa are eligible to depart the country  and return immediately enjoying a further 60 days  . 
You are only allowed two consecutive stays in this manner . 
If you want to stay with friends or family in Cuba you have to go with your intended host within two days after arrival to a migration office and pay 40 CUC for a 30 days family visa . 
Citizens of Antigua and Barbuda  , Barbados  , Benin , Bosnia and Herzegovina , CIS  , Dominica , Grenada  , Liechtenstein  , Macedonia , Malaysia  , Mongolia , Montenegro  , Namibia , Singapore , Slovakia , Saint Kitts and Nevis , Saint Lucia , Saint Vincent and the Grenadines , Serbia  , Turkmenistan who can stay 30 days without visa . 
( The source of the previous sentence is unknown . 
Aeromexico staff at Cancun airport claim that only citizens of China and Russia need no visa . 
It is important to note that there is also a departure tax of CUC 25 , to be paid in cash when departing Cuba by airplane ; this is not required for boat departures . 
This tax is not well publicized but it is essential to remember it . 
You will run into significant difficulties if you do not have enough cash to pay this tax when leaving the country . 
An ATM and currency exchange are available at Havana airport , but these facilities are not as reliable in Cuba as in other places . 
Cuban customs can be strict , though they sometimes go easy on tourists . 
