Enjambment takes place when a syntactic unit is broken up across two lines of poetry  , giving rise to different stylistic effects  , or creating double interpretations for the enjambed lines  . 
In Spanish poetry , the syntactic configurations under which enjambment takes place have been described extensively , and detailed studies on the use of enjambment by individual authors exist  including , among others Quilis  , Domínguez Caparrós ,  , Paraíso ,  , Spang  for a description of enjambment , and Alarcos  , Senabre  , Luján  , Martínez Fernández  for case - studies on a single author . 
However , a larger - scale study to identify enjambment across hundreds of authors spanning several centuries , enabling distant reading  , was not previously available . 
Given that need , we have developed software , based on Natural Language Processing , that automatically identifies enjambment in Spanish , and applied it to a corpus of approx. 3750 sonnets by ca. 1000 authors , from the 15th to the 19th century . 
What is the interest of such large - scale automatic analyses of enjambment ? 
First , the literature shows a debate about which specific syntactic units can be considered to trigger enjambment , if split across two lines , and whether lexical and syntactic criteria are sufficient to identify enjambment . 
Second , the stylistic effects that enjambment permits are also an object of current research  . 
Systematically collecting large amounts of enjambment examples provides helpful evidence to assess scholars ’ current claims , and may stimulate novel analyses . 
Finally , our study complements Navarro ’s  automatic metrical analyses of Spanish Golden Age sonnets , by covering a wider period and focusing on enjambment . 
The abstract is structured thus : 
First we provide the definition of enjambment adopted . 
Then , our corpus and system are described , followed by an evaluation of the system . 
Finally , findings on enjambment in our diachronic sonnet corpus are discussed . 
The project ’s website provides details omitted here for space reasons , including samples for the corpus , results , and other details . 
Syntactic and metrical units often match in poetry . 
However , this trend has been broken since antiquity for various reasons  on Homer , or Flores Gómez  on early classical poetry ) . 
In Spanish tradition , enjambment  is considered to take place when a pause suggested by poetic form  occurs between strongly connected lexical or syntactic units , triggering an unnatural cut between those units . 
Quilis  performed poetry reading experiments , proposing that the following strongly connected elements give rise to enjambment , should a poetic - form pause break them up : 
Lexical enjambment : Breaking up a word . 
We translated " lexical enjambment " from Quilis ’s terms " encabalgamiento léxico " or " tmesis " . 
Phrase - bounded enjambment : Within a phrase , breaking up sequences like " noun + adjective " , " verb + adverb " , " auxiliary verb + main verb " , among others . 
We translated " phrase - bounded enjambment " from " encabalgamiento sirremático " . 
We translated " cross-clause enjambment " from Quilis ’s " encabalgamiento oracional " . 
The project site includes Quilis ’s complete list of syntactic environments that can trigger enjambment , as well as the types identified by our system . 
Besides the enjambment types above , Spang  noted that if a subject or direct object and their related verbs occur in two different lines of poetry , this can also feel unusual for a reader , even if the effect is less pronounced than in the environments identified by Quilis . 
To differentiate these cases from enjambment proper , Spang calls these cases " enlace " , translated here as " expansion " . 
Quilis  was the only author so far to gather recitation - based experimental evidence on enjambment . 
His typology is still considered current , and was adopted by later authors , although complementary enjambment typologies have been proposed , as Martínez Cantón  reviews . 
Our system identifies Quilis ’ types , besides Spang ’s expansion cases . 
