Jenna Nicole Mourey  , better known by her pseudonym Jenna Marbles , is an American YouTube personality , vlogger , comedian and actress . 
As of March 2019 , her channel has approximately 3.1 billion video views and 19.5 million subscribers ,  and is the 86th most subscribed channel on YouTube and the eighth - most - popular channel operated by a woman .  
Marbles is the first social media star to have a wax figure displayed in Madame Tussauds Museum , located in New York City .  
Marbles was born and raised in Rochester , New York , where she graduated from Brighton High School in 2004 . 
Her father is a chemist who holds several patents and she has one older brother .  
She then moved to Boston , where she attended Suffolk University . 
At Suffolk she obtained a Bachelor of Science in Psychology , and later attended Boston University for a Master of Education in Sport Psychology and Counseling .  
In the summer of 2010 , Marbles was sharing a three - bedroom apartment in Cambridge , Massachusetts . 
She paid $ 800 rent by working various jobs , like bartending , working at a tanning salon , blogging , and go - go dancing at nightclubs .  
That year , Marbles started her career with Barstool Sports , where she wrote for their female - oriented site StoolLaLa . 
She left Barstool Sports in 2011 .  
Marbles uploads a new video to her YouTube channel every Wednesday / Thursday . 
One video , released in 2010 and entitled " How To Trick People Into Thinking You 're Good Looking " was viewed over 5.3 million times in its first week .   
Her video " How To Avoid Talking To People You Do n't Want To Talk To " was featured in articles by The New York Times and ABC News in August 2011 . 
In the video , she stated , " I 'm sick and tired of guys thinking that just because I showed up at a club or a dance or a bar , that I want to have their genitalia touching my backside " ;   the video had approximately 36.2 million views as of March 2018 .  
The pseudonym " Jenna Marbles " comes from her mother 's complaint that " Mourey " , their legal surname , pulled up only Jenna 's videos on Google . 
Jenna 's mother was unemployed at the time that Jenna 's first video went viral , and was concerned that their content might put off potential employers .  
The name " Marbles " comes from her dog " Mr. Marbles " . 
As of January 2019 , Marbles 's YouTube channel had about 19 million subscribers and 2.9 billion video views .   
Marbles appeared as Eve in season 2 of Epic Rap Battles of History , episode 13 , " Adam vs. Eve "  
She played a banana in The Annoying Orange episode " Fake n' Bacon " . 
She played Miley Cyrus in a " Wrecking Ball " - inspired segment of YouTube Rewind 2013 . 
On January 30 , 2014 , she appeared in season four of Ridiculousness . 
Marbles appeared as herself in Smosh : The Movie .  
In 2015 , Marbles unveiled a wax figure of herself at Madame Tussauds New York . 
She was the first ever YouTube star to be immortalized at Madame Tussauds New York and her figure is the first selfie - taking wax figure at this location .  
Marbles has also professionalized her business affairs by expanding her business and bringing in people to help , including , a personal assistant , a business manager , and her mother  .  
Marbles does a weekly podcast with her boyfriend Julien Solomita called " The Jenna Julien Podcast "  . 
Topics include stories of growing up , conspiracy theories , YouTubers and other general topics . 
They sometimes feature other YouTubers as guests on their podcast , including Shane Dawson .  
Marbles released a brand of dog toys called Kermie Worm &amp; Mr. Marbles . 
The toys ' appearances are based upon her real dogs .  
She has also created items with some of her most memorable quotes printed on them  . 
Marbles also hosts a weekly pop countdown on SiriusXM Hits 1 called " YouTube 15 " .   
In 2016 , Marbles became an executive producer for Maximum Ride , a film based on the series of novels of the same name by James Patterson .  
In 2015 , Marbles became a full - time vegan .   
Marbles has been in a relationship with fellow YouTuber Julien Solomita since 2013 , and the two live together in California with their four dogs , Marbles , Kermit , Peach and Bunny , who regularly appear in her videos .  
