Salinity is one of the most important marine parameters , which controls many processes such as physical circulations , biogeochemistry dynamics from regional to global ocean  . 
Although drifters and buoys , together with cruises , have accumulated large amount in - situ water salinity data in different regions , it is still difficult to monitor global ocean salinity with high temporal - spatial resolution by the in situ measurements . 
In the past decade , with the successful launch of the soil moisture and ocean salinity  satellite by the European Space Agency   , the Aquarius / SAC-D satellite  , and the soil moisture active passive  satellite  by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration  , global sea surface salinity  observations from space have become possible and a significant improvement has been made to understand the ocean dynamics and climate change . 
The early concept of remote sensing of SSS has been demonstrated in the late 1970s with observations by Skylab  and two airborne L - band radiometry experiments  . 
At the end of 1990 , two airborne microwave interferometers , the electronically scanned thinned array radiometer  and the scanning low - frequency microwave radiometer  , successfully produced SSS maps in coastal areas in agreement with in - situ measurements with an accuracy of about 1 psu . 
Based on many experiments , the L - band is evidenced as the optimal frequency for remote sensing of SSS , which has been adopted by SMOS , Aquarius / SAC-D and SMAP . 
However , the sensitivity of satellite measured brightness temperature to SSS is quite low . 
For example , the sensitivity of vertically polarized brightness temperature to SSS variation is 0.4 to 0.8 K/psu for different observing angles and sea surface temperatures  , and it is only 0.2 to 0.6 K/psu for the horizontal polarization brightness temperature  . 
Thus , remote sensing of SSS requires a highly accurate retrieval model . 
It is widely accepted that the corrections of the sea surface and atmospheric effects are essential for remote sensing of SSS , since these effects could alter the value of sensor - measured brightness temperature and introduce errors into the SSS retrieval process . 
Besides the atmospheric effects , the increasing of sea surface emissivity due to the sea surface roughness and foam effects is the main source of error , which could significantly hamper the accuracy of SSS retrieval  . 
Over the past decades , the correction for sea surface roughness effects were studied based on the in - situ and airborne measurements ; for example , the experiments made from a tower  , wind and salinity experiments   , airborne Passive - Active L - band Sensor  campaign  and Combined Airborne Radio instruments for Ocean and Land Studies  campaigns  . 
Many rough surface emission models have also been developed based on the theoretical and empirical methods . 
Among these models , the small - slope approximation / small perturbation model   , two scale model   and empirical / semi-empirical models  have been widely used by the research community and implemented in different satellite data processing systems . 
As the foam effect is significant at high wind speed conditions  due to strong wave breaking , it has been corrected by numerous models ; for example , the semi-empirical models  and radiative transfer equation  based models  , which were developed to estimate the foam covered sea surface emissivity . 
Although many theoretical and empirical models have been developed , some problems are still unsolved . 
For example , the TSM originally proposed to estimate brightness temperature at higher frequencies , uses the sea surface wave spectrum by multiplying a factor of 2 . 
However , whether this modification can be applied to L - band is still unclear , and the choice of cutoff wavenumber is arbitrary and needs to be clarified in the L - band . 
Moreover , the sea surface reflection of downwelling atmospheric emission is another contribution to satellite - observed brightness temperature  , thus the determination of the cutoff wavenumber is required not only for sea surface emission but also for reflection . 
In addition , the widely used empirical models decouple the wind effect from SSS and SST effects , which means that the surface emission is due to a perfectly flat sea surface and the wind - roughened sea surface . 
The wind - roughened sea surface is associated with the increased brightness temperature  , which induces regional biases when applied to different areas  . 
Furthermore , the satellite measurements of SSS are hampered by the effect of radio frequency interference  in offshore areas of China  , which causes a large amount of data to be discarded  . 
Thus , the compatibility of these models in coastal area of China needs to be assessed and tested in order to achieve higher accuracies of SSS from the space - borne observations . 
