Today ’s generation will not survive a day without the help of lighting . 
In fact , someone ’s productivity , particularly at night , depends on the presence of a good lighting and it seems that it is a daily necessity . 
Lighting takes a large part on the consumption of household electrical energy particularly in the Philippines . 
There are different type of lighting bulbs used at home can affect the overall lighting consumption . 
Nowadays , most commonly and widely used bulb in the household is the Compact Fluorescent Light  . 
However , the main problem of CFL is the mercury they contain . 
In addition to this is the harmful effect of mercury such as Emission of UV Radiation . 
In response to the said problem , this project study gives solution to the problem of the society concerning environment , health and safety as well energy conservation , by developing a segmented compact light - emitting diode  bulb from busted CFL that are efficient , economical , and does not contain toxic chemicals . 
Based on the results of the 2011 Household Energy Consumption Survey  , electricity remains as the most common source of energy used by households particularly in the Philippines . 
About 87 percent of 21.0 million households used electricity from March to August 2011 . 
As of 2016 , the demand for electricity in the residential is leading among the different sectors . 
It is often grouped depending on its uses that are distributed for heating and cooling , lighting , operating appliances etc  
Now that the world is in the age where lighting seems to be a daily necessity , typical homes as shown in figure 1 , consume nearly 27 percent of the energy used today : making lighting as the major source of electricity consumption . 
Lighting plays a large part on the consumption of household electrical energy ; it consumes about 18 % of the total generated electricity of total energy consumption in residential sectors as shown in figure 2  . 
One of the main factors in lighting energy consumption is the light bulb . 
The use of correct and appropriate type of light bulb improves the efficiency of energy usage . 
There are three general types of lighting that are widely used in the household nowadays : the  LED bulb ,  CFL bulb and the incandescent bulb . 
But each of them has their perks and perils  . 
Unfortunately , most of the time , people in the residential end up choosing a lamp based on it is price rather than its efficiency and this cause us to pay for our lighting more than necessary . 
Today , CFLs are the most used lighting sources in the household . 
Using CFLs will allow people to decrease their energy consumption ; also it is a good start to decrease greenhouse emissions . 
However , the main problem of CFLs is the mercury they contain . 
When products and wastes containing mercury are improperly disposed of , mercury is released into the air , ground or water . 
It is persistent in the environment ; it never breaks down nor goes away . 
In addition to the harmful effects of mercury is that it emits Ultraviolet  Radiation . 
This UV radiation interacts with the chemicals on the inside of the bulb to generate light . 
The acute and chronic effects are the normal responses of the skin to UVR ; acute reactions considered will be erythema  and vitamin D production . 
Skin aging and skin cancer will be discussed as those reactions produced by prolonged or repeated UVR exposure  . 
In response to the aforementioned situation where the three types of lights are compared by their efficiency and effectiveness as light sources , the proponents conducted this study . 
Since the CFLs are the most commonly used light bulbs in the residential and has a great compatibility to LED in terms of design and materials , the proponents conducted a study about innovating and recycling CFL into a more efficient and environment friendly LED light bulb . 
