Replication studies are considered by many to play a fundamental role in any scientific endeavor . 
When using the same materials and procedures as a previous study , replication studies serve to test the reliability of the previous study ’s findings . 
When altering specific methodological or participant characteristics of a previous study , they serve to test generalizability of the earlier findings under different conditions . 
One indication of the importance of replication is found in the 50 or more calls for replication research in the field of second language  research alone  : from Santos  through Polio and Gass 1997 to very recent proposals for specific replication studies , such as Vandergrift and Cross 2017 and even a book - length treatment  . 
Beyond these calls , efforts to actively promote and facilitate replication studies have also emerged . 
For example , the Instruments for Research into Second Languages  repository  was established in 2011 and holds , at the time of writing , over 3,800 materials that can be used for replication , among other purposes , in L2 research  . 
The Open Science Framework  , also established in 2011 , provides a web infrastructure to facilitate collaboration and has been used for large replication efforts in psychology  , which continue to make waves in academia  and the general media  . 
In some fields , a flourishing metascience , that is , the scientific study of science  , has included syntheses assessing the quantity and nature of replication efforts , for example , in education  . 
The driving force behind this battery of calls , commentaries , infrastructure , and metascience is a perceived crisis in the state of replication research . 
The severe concerns underpinning the alleged crisis have several dimensions relating to :  the  amount of published replication research ;  the  quality of replication research ; and  the  reproducibility , which refers to the extent to which findings can  be reproduced in replication attempts that have been undertaken . 
These concerns speak to the very core of science , raising fundamental questions about the validity and reliability of our work . 
Indeed , some commentators have called replication the “ gold standard ” of research evidence  and a “ linchpin of the scientific process ”  . 
In the field of L2 research , given the importance of replication and the 50 calls for replication in L2 research that we identified , one might expect a substantial number of published replication studies by now . 
However , a perceived lack of prestige , excitement , and originality of replication plagues L2 research  , as it does other disciplines  , and these perceptions are thought to have caused , at least in part  , alleged low rates and a poor quality of published replication studies . 
However , a systematic metascience on replication research has not yet been established in the field of L2 research , leaving a poor understanding of the actual number and nature of replication studies that have been published . 
The current study begins to address this gap through narrative and systematic reviews . 
The narrative review considers challenges in replication research and is largely informed by commentaries and metascience from psychology , given that the cognitive and social subdomains of psychology are highly influential in L2 research , and also from education , another key sister discipline . 
The narrative review is organized around four broad themes :  the quantity of replication research ,  the nature of replication research ,  the relationship between initial and replication studies , and  the interpretation and extent of reproducibility of the findings of initial studies . 
To gain insight into these issues in the context of L2 research , the systematic review provides a synthesis of L2 studies in journal articles that self - labeled as replications . 
The research questions and methods of the systematic review were largely determined by the narrative review but also emerged through the design and piloting of the coding instrument . 
Finally , we offer further discussion and 16 recommendations for future replication work that draw on our narrative and systematic reviews and on our experience of carrying out multisite  1 and single site  replications . 
We start from the widely agreed premise that testing the reproducibility of findings should have an essential role in the testing and refinement of theory , at least for hypothesis - testing epistemologies that seek to ascertain generalizability and for other epistemologies in which constructs are deemed to be definable and observable . 
Thus , our overall aim is to provide conceptual clarification and an empirical base for future discussion and production of replication studies , with a view to improving the amount and quality of L2 replication research . 
