One afternoon, when I was eight years old, I was going to the grocer's with Mom.
Pointing at a man riding a bike on the street, Mother said:"He must be madman.
He even knows Chinese."
Today I still remember what that man looked like: he had a head of blown-up hair like Einstein's, and what was more frightening was its fiery-red color.
At that moment I believed I had seen a real devil.
In 1966, I was at the senior high school which offered Latin and French as foreign languages.
I was very keen on Latin and French poetry.
One day I was browsing through the poetry shelves at the school library.
When I picked from the shelf an anthology of poems by the American poet Ezra Pound, a thin booklet next to it fell to the floor.
I picked it up and found it was a collection of Pound's translations of Chinese classical poetry.
I was astonished that there had ever been poetry composed by Chinese.
I thumbed through a few pages and was glued to it: never had I read poetry in such refreshing styles.
One week later, I went to Arthur Waley, an English sinologist of the early20th century, and borrowed his The Opium War, which surprised me again.
In English textbooks of history not a single word about the war was mentioned and the average Englishmen simply did not know anything about it.
It was but a small and short-lived battle or a trade conflict taking place locally in East Asia, so it deserved no mention at all when compared with the more important events happening then in the large number of British colonies in Southeast Asia, Central Asia, Africa and Australia.
However, after I had read The Opium War, I felt like reading more about China, so I borrowed Waley's translation of Chinese poetry.
It was beyond my imagination indeed that Chinese poets could have produced poetry so moving and written in such elegant language.
A couple of months later, newspapers carried the news that Edinburgh University was going to offer a course of the Chinese language.
That night I lay in bed and, unable to go to sleep, thought to myself:why not take the course and learn the Chinese language in a systematic way, so that I would be able to appreciate Chinese poetry in the original.
The next morning I called the administration office of the university and made an appointment to see the Dean of the Department.
Three days later I went to see him, taking a train that lasted two hours, but he forgot that he had made an appointment with a strange young man who wanted to learn the Chinese language.
Back home I contacted the Dean again, trying to convince him of my resolve to learn Chinese.
The Chinese Department managed to enroll only five students from across the country just before the course got started.
When I told my high school Latin and French teachers that I was going to study Chinese, the Latin teacher, a pedantic old gentleman, kept extolling me for my courage while the French teacher,a madam, shaking her head and shrugging her shoulders, tried to talk me out of it."
Do not waste your time at the university, better take something, or anything that is useful."
When I first heard the language spoken from a recorder in class, I was really disappointed. it sounded as if all the sounds had one tone.
Little wonder that westerners said Chinese was a mysterious language.
By the end of the first semester, I was still terribly confused about the four tones of spoken Chinese, and the voices from the tape were simply a din.
We Chinese majors were looked upon as "archaeological scholars".
I still remember, when I first went to the library for a book on Chinese grammar, what the housewife-like librarian said to me. She looked at me over her spectacles and said:"Chinese grammar?
That language has long been out of use, hasn't it?"
During my college days in Edinburgh, I saw only a couple of Chinese immigrants from Mainland China in the 1930s.
There were a few small Chinese restaurants run by immigrants from Hong Kong, but they all spoke Cantonese.
On two or three occasions some Chinese officials from the Chinese Embassy in London visited our Chinese classes, and each time they came they praised the excellent situation of the "cultural revolution", not mentioning anything about Chinese traditional culture that I had been so interested in.
When I asked them about Confucius, Mencius and the Chinese classics, they said that China was engaged in breaking the four-olds.
Hearing that, I was disappointed and sorry for China.
Chinese culture is like the go game whose rules are clear and simple and easy to follow, but until you begin to play it, you do not see the mystery and complexity involved in it.
It has no formal conjugation of verbs or inflections in gender and number.
When you describe any event, all you need to do is to provide the necessary adverbs indicating the time at which the event occurs, such as "just now","yesterday"and"tomorrow'.
These grammatical phenomena made the beginner excited at first, thinking that he was lucky enough not to have to bother about such irregularities of verbs as in French.
But it is not until he has gone far enough into it that he realizes that just because the Chinese language has too few rules, the beginner often finds himself at a loss what to do.
"Chinese Puzzle" in English is a synonym of a difficult problem, and "Chinese Box" refers to a problem that is too complex to solve.
When a westerner does not understand what you are talking about, he would say,"You are speaking Chinese".
After graduating from university, I retreated to a remote rural area in Scotland and, earned a living by farming on a piece of land I reclained from the wilderness, modeling on the philosophy of Lao Zi, Zhuang Zi and Tao Yuanming whose lifestyle I admired.
I know that Tao Yunming had integrated himself with Nature.
While farming , I studied ancient Chinese philosophies, yuanqu, and novels and stories of the Ming and Qing dynasties.
I also wrote articles for newspapers and journals , to make some extra money.
The editors thought highly of the style, saying that the style of the discourse was like an angel flying.
I know that I had benefited from the techniques of Chinese classical writing, i.e, the four steps: introduction, elucidation, transition and conclusion, and the brilliant Chinese culture hand enlightened me with inexhaustible inspirations.
Even today I keep writing English prose, drawing on the writing techniques and logic of Chinese literature.
