The US secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, today warned North Korea that it stood to lose vital economic aid unless it took immediate steps to abandon its nuclear weapons programme.
In a move that could heighten tensions between the two countries, Pyongyang is reportedly preparing to test a Taepodong-2 ballistic missile believed to have sufficient range to reach US territory.
Speaking in Tokyo on her first overseas trip as secretary of state, Clinton warned the Pyongyang regime against going ahead with the threatened launch, saying it would damage its prospects for improved relations with the US and the world.
Without prompting, she told reporters at a joint news conference with the Japanese foreign minister, Hirofumi Nakasone, that the rumoured test would jeopardise the Obama administration's willingness improve ties with Pyongyang.
"The possible missile launch that North Korea is talking about would be very unhelpful in moving our relationship forward," she said.
She added that if the North wanted to end its isolation it also had to meet denuclearisation pledges made during the Bush administration.
"The decision as to whether North Korea will cooperate in the six-party [nuclear] talks, end provocative language and actions is up to them, and we are watching very closely," Clinton said.
"If North Korea abides by the obligations it has already entered into and verifiably and completely eliminates its nuclear programme, then there will be a reciprocal response, certainly from the United States.
It is truly up to the North Koreans."
However, she refused to be drawn into criticism of the Bush administration, which failed to make progress on the nuclear issue despite removing North Korea from its list of states that sponsor terrorism.
"I am not going to get into an analysis of the past," she said. "The fact is that, over the past eight years, the North Koreans have obtained the capacity ... to make nuclear weapons.
"If we could turn the clock back, we would not have let that occur.
But we are where we are."
Analysts and government officials in the region believe Pyongyang is using the threatened missile launch to push its nuclear-linked demands to the top of the Obama administration's foreign policy agenda.
It has also threatened a naval clash with South Korea on the disputed western sea border between the two.
"One will come to know later what will be launched," the North's state-run news agency, KCNA, said.
By visiting Asia on her maiden trip, Clinton has broken with a long tradition among new secretaries of state of first visiting Europe or the Middle East.
The move is seen as an acknowledgement of China's growing status as an economic and military power.
Part of Clinton's visit to Japan is intended to reassure her hosts that they will not be bypassed diplomatically as Obama attempts to win Chinese cooperation on trade, the environment and regional security.
Clinton was due to meet families of several Japanese nationals who were kidnapped by North Korean agents in the 1970s and 80s, an issue Tokyo views with more urgency than even the communist state's nuclear ambitions.
"The abductee issue is [one] of grave concern," Clinton said.
"It is such a human tragedy.
We do want to press the North Koreans to be more forthcoming with information."
She was also due to meet Ichiro Ozawa, Japan's main opposition leader, in a move that underlines the quickly deteriorating fortunes of the prime minister, Taro Aso.
Yesterday, Japan reported its economy had shrunk in the last quarter at its fastest rate since the 1974 oil shock and was heading for its deepest recession since the war.
Clinton called for coordinated efforts to overcome the global economic crisis.
"As the first and second economies in the world we understand those responsibilities," she said, adding that countries should also "ensure our economies work for our own citizens".
Aso, whose approval ratings are the second lowest of any Japanese leader, was dealt another blow today when his finance minister, Shoichi Nakagawa, said he would resign after giving a press conference in Rome at the weekend while apparently drunk.
Nakagawa, who faced censure motions in parliament over his embarrassing performance, insisted he had been suffering the effects of a large dose of cold medicine mixed with a "sip" of wine.
Earlier, Clinton and Nakasone signed an agreement to transfer 8,000 US marines based on the southern island of Okinawa to the US Pacific territory of Guam by 2014.
The deal is intended to reduce the military footprint on Okinawa, home to the bulk of US bases in Japan.
Clinton will fly to Indonesia tomorrow before going on to South Korea and China.
