China and the United States will resume high-level defense talks next week, signaling a warming of relations since Beijing broke off military ties early this year.
Chinese Defense Minister General Liang Guanglie and U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates will talk in Hanoi, Vietnam, while they attend a security forum of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
"Liang is scheduled to meet Gates on the sidelines of the conference," said Guan Youfei, deputy director of the Ministry of National Defense's Foreign Affairs Office, according to Chinese state-run media.
Beijing broke off military contacts early this year to protest the U.S. sale of arms to Taiwan, which China regards as a breakaway province.
"It takes mutual respect and concern for each other's core interests to keep a healthy military relationship," Guan said at a news briefing Wednesday, according to China Daily.
Gates also is expected to further defense discussions by visiting China.
"I think, realistically, we're probably looking at early next year before we have a chance to get to Beijing," U.S. Defense Department spokesman Geoff Morrell said.
"The Chinese have expressed to us a desire to host the secretary.
They've asked us to look for opportunities in his calendar...
[O]ur expectation is that we would be able to travel and engage with the Chinese as soon as possible."
The ASEAN meeting in Vietnam will cover security issues in the region.
But those discussions will not include territorial disputes over the South China Sea, Guan said.
"China holds a consistent stance that the South China Sea issue is not an issue between China and the ASEAN," he said.
Beijing says most of the South China Sea belong to China, disputing neighboring countries' claims.
The clash over territorial waters and islands -- and the natural resources that go with them -- is a flash point in the Asia-Pacific region.
ASEAN is a political and economic organization consisting of Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
The talks in Vietnam also will include Australia, China, India, Japan, New Zealand, Russia, South Korea and the United States.

此次会议由美国、中国、日本和俄罗斯的领导人参加，标志着为期四天的峰会结束，会议突显了全球经济不平衡问题上的分歧。
11月12日，二十国集团在首尔承诺“反对保护主义贸易行为”，但未能就解决贸易和投资扭曲问题达成一致。
日本首相菅直人表示，占全球经济超过50%且几乎占全球贸易45%的亚太经合组织（APEC）“将继续推进，使亚太自由贸易区成为现实”。
分歧仍然存在
尽管如此，成员国之间的分歧依然存在。
中国国家主席胡锦涛在美国总统奥巴马于首尔称人民币“被低估”后表示，中国的货币政策不会改变。菅直人昨天与胡锦涛和俄罗斯总统梅德韦杰夫就各自的领土争端进行了会晤，虽然各方同意改善关系，但没有作出任何让步。
亚太经合组织领导人表示，该地区“正在从近期的经济和金融危机中恢复，但不确定性依然存在”。
呼应二十国集团的声明，亚太经合组织呼吁加强货币灵活性，并警告外汇市场的剧烈波动可能会扰乱经济增长。
“由市场决定”
声明中表示：“我们将朝着更多由市场决定的汇率体系迈进”，并“避免货币竞争性贬值”。
发达国家将保持警惕，以“帮助缓解一些新兴市场经济体面临的资本流动过度波动的风险”。
该集团同意通过包括东南亚国家联盟在内的区域性组织以及如美国主导的跨太平洋伙伴关系等谈判推动贸易发展。
菅直人支持加入跨太平洋伙伴关系谈判，但在日本国内，由于农民受益于关税保护，他面临来自自己党的反对。
他的内阁上周仅同意开始就谈判进行初步讨论，奥巴马向菅直人表示“非常欢迎”这一举动。
奥巴马今天结束为期10天的亚洲之行，在此期间未能实现他的部分目标。
他未能在二十国集团达成有关全球经济再平衡的具体步骤协议，还不得不延长与韩国就贸易协议的谈判，这是他推动美国出口的核心目标。