Formerly a columnist for The Guardian, Cleave is the author of two previous novels, “Incendiary” and “Little Bee,” whose career in fiction began with a bizarre bit of calendrical happenstance.
The publication date of Cleave’s first novel, “Incendiary,” about a fictional terrorist attack on London, chanced to coincide with the July 7, 2005, London Underground bombings.
Written as a series of letters from an attack victim’s widow to Osama bin Laden, the book received high praise and international awards.
Cleave’s next novel, “Little Bee,” told the story of a smart-set London editor and a young Nigerian girl whose lives become entwined after a harrowing encounter on a West African beach.
“Little Bee” was a tour de force ― I recall reading it in about two and a half minutes, or so it seemed ― that became a smash hit.
Now comes “Gold,” a story of athletic ambition, Olympic glory, parental sacrifice and the mightily tedious sport of track cycling.
“Gold” is so unlike Cleave’s earlier work that it doesn’t seem implausible to imagine a mate down at the pub challenging him to write a novel without any of the qualities that so delighted readers of “Incendiary” and “Little Bee”: vibrant first-person narrators, snap-snap dialogue, sharp wit, complex cultural-?political themes, brisk scenes and deeply engaging characters.
Or maybe Cleave just wanted to try something different.
“Gold” takes place in the run-up to the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
Kate Meadows and Zoe Castle are world-class sprint cyclists who live and train in Manchester.
Longtime friends and rivals, they’ve been racing against each other since they were 19.
Now 32, with their careers winding down, they see the London Games as a last chance for glory.
Kate’s the good girl.
“Pretty happy,” Zoe says of Kate. “Pretty normal. Pretty pretty.”
Kate’s always eager to do the right thing, order the sensible meal, sacrifice for her family.
The arrival of an infant daughter, Sophie, kept her out of the 2004 Athens Games; on the eve of the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Kate again bowed out when little Sophie was found to have leukemia.
Now it’s 2012, her last shot, and it’s finally good mother Kate’s turn. The only thing standing in her way is her friend.
Zoe’s the naughty one.
“I’m ugly on the inside,” she warns a prospective beau. “I’ll mess your head up.”
Haunted by childhood traumas, Zoe trains nonstop and swallows the empty calories of victory as a substitute for the nourishment of friends and family.
She cares about nothing but winning.
She’ll crash an opponent, steal a boyfriend, do whatever it takes.
Ruthlessness, of course, has its rewards ― lucrative sponsorships, magazine covers, a luxurious apartment and billboard fame.
A rule change sets the plot spinning.
To placate television executives who love finals and loathe preliminary heats, the International Olympic Committee trims the slots available to each nation in sprint cycling: One athlete per flag, please.
Who will it be, Britain: Kate or Zoe?
Tough call.
Even Tom Voss, the wizened Olympic cyclist (Mexico City, ’68) who coaches both athletes, can’t decide: “He wasn’t supposed to have a favorite, and the truth was that he didn’t.
Kate was the more naturally gifted rider, Zoe leveled the score with pure determination, and Tom liked them equally.”
A race is agreed to. Best two out of three sprints, Kate against Zoe.
I won’t reveal the ending, but I will tell you it takes absolute ages to get there.
“Gold” is a head-scratcher of a novel.
Rival champions can produce riveting drama. Think Navratilova-Evert, Graf-Seles.
And the Olympic sports I’ve seen up close often nurture a rich subculture of peculiar characters: rising stars, wily veterans, dopers and cheaters, has-beens, never-weres, vulpine agents, arrogant federation heads, wealthy supporters and creepy hangers-on.
It’s a real zoo.
The setting of Cleave’s novel also sounds quite promising.
Having watched “24 Hour Party People,” I understand that Manchester can be an interesting town.
But in “Gold,” all we see are Kate and Zoe, temperamental friends, training and working out their relationship against a backdrop as blank as Toronto.
And then there’s the cancer.
Little Sophie battles it courageously, keeping fear at bay by imagining the adults around her as “Star Wars” characters.
Her father, Jack, an Olympic cyclist and good-natured lunk, is forever brewing a cup of tea for his lovely wife and inquiring of his daughter, “Do you feel poorly?”
The tear-welling virtue never stops.
When Sophie began to feel ever more poorly, this reader couldn’t help recalling Oscar Wilde’s reaction to the death of Little Nell.
Zoe does what she can to redeem the book.
Her many failings give Cleave a chance to exercise his substantial literary muscle.
“Off the bike she was like a smoker without cigarettes,” he observes of Zoe, “never sure what to do with her hands.” Zoe’s a self-destructive rotter on the scale of the infamous Shane of “The L Word.”
She does what she likes. She shows up late. She sleeps with cads who kiss and tell to the tabloids.
Zoe doesn’t care. Even a cad can provide a human connection for a few hours, as she realizes upon waking with one. “She hadn’t wanted the sex as much as she wanted to share this space with another human being, 46 floors up in the clouds.
Sex was cheap money that you could print on demand and use to buy a reprieve from loneliness till morning.”
Lovely writing, that is. Readers of “Gold” may wish there were more of it.
This might have been the “North Dallas Forty” or “Ball Four” of an obscure Olympic sport ― sharp, revelatory, funny. ?Instead it’s “Beaches” on bikes.
