Four or five years after we got married, Your Honor, S. and I were invited to a dinner party at the home of a German dancer, who was then living in New York.
At the time, S. worked at a theatre where the dancer was performing a solo piece.
The apartment was small and filled with the dancer's unusual possessions, things he had been given or had found on the street or during his tireless travels, all arranged with the sense of space, proportion, timing, and grace that made him such a joy to watch onstage.
In fact, it was strange and almost frustrating to see the dancer in street clothes and brown house slippers, moving so practically through his apartment, with little or no sign of the tremendous physical talent that lay dormant in him, and I found myself craving some break in this pragmatic facade, a leap or turn, some explosion of his true energy.
All the same, once I got used to this and began examining his many little collections I had the elated, otherworldly feeling I sometimes get when entering the sphere of another's life, when for a moment changing my banal habits and living like that seems entirely possible, a feeling that always dissolves the next morning, when I wake up to the familiar, unmovable shapes of my own life.
At some point I got up from the dinner table to use the bathroom, and in the hall I passed the open door of the dancer's bedroom.
The room was spare, with only a bed and a wooden chair and a little altar with candles set up in one corner.
There was a large window facing south, through which lower Manhattan hung suspended in the dark.
The walls were blank except for one painting that was tacked up with pins, a vibrant picture out of whose many bright, high-spirited strokes several faces emerged, as if from a bog, now and then topped with a hat.
The faces on the top half of the paper were upside down, as if the painter had turned the page around or circled it on his or her knees while painting, in order to reach more easily.
It was a strange piece of work, unlike the style of the other things the dancer had collected, and I studied it for a minute or two before continuing on to the bathroom.
The fire in the living room burned down; the night progressed.
At the end, as we were putting on our coats, I surprised myself by asking the dancer who had made the painting.
He told me that his best friend from childhood had done it when he was nine.
My friend and his older sister, he said, though I think she did most of it. Afterward, they gave it to me.
The dancer helped me on with my coat.
You know, that painting has a sad story, he added a moment later, almost as an afterthought.
One afternoon, the mother gave the children sleeping pills in their tea.
The boy was nine and his sister was eleven.
Once they were asleep, she carried them to the car and drove out to the forest.
By this time, it was getting dark. She poured gasoline all over the car and lit a match.
All three burned to death.
It's hard to explain, the dancer said, but I was always jealous of how things were at my friend's house.
That year they kept their Christmas tree up until April.
It turned brown and the needles were dropping off, but many times I nagged my mother about why we couldn't keep our Christmas tree up as long as they did at J?rn's.
In the silence that followed this story, which he told in the most straightforward manner, the dancer smiled.
It may have been because I had my coat on, and the apartment was warm, but suddenly I began to feel lightheaded.
There were many other things I would have liked to ask about the children and his friendship with them, but I was afraid I might faint, and so after another guest had made a joke about the morbid end to the night we thanked the dancer for the meal and said goodbye.
As we rode down in the elevator I fought to steady myself, but S., who was humming quietly, seemed not to notice.
At that time, S. and I were thinking of having a child.
But there were always things that we felt we had to work out first in our own lives, together and separately, and time simply passed without bringing any resolution, or a clearer sense of how we might go about being something more than what we were already struggling to be.
And though when I was younger I believed I wanted to have a child, I was not surprised to find myself at thirty-five, and then forty, without one.
Maybe this seems like ambivalence, Your Honor, and I suppose in part it was, but it was something else, too, a feeling I've always had, despite mounting evidence to the contrary, that there is - that there will always be - more time left for me.
The years went by, my face changed in the mirror, my body was no longer what it had been, but I still found it difficult to believe that the possibility of having my own child could expire without my explicit agreement.
In the taxi home that night, I continued to think about that mother and her children: the wheels of the car softly rolling over the pine needles on the forest floor, the engine cut in a clearing, the pale faces of those young painters asleep in the back seat, dirt under their fingernails.
How could she have done it? I said aloud to S.
It was not really the question I wanted to ask, but it was as close as I could get just then.
She lost her mind, he said simply, as if that were the end of it.
Not long afterward, I wrote a story about the dancer's childhood friend who had died asleep in his mother's car in the German forest.
I didn't change any of the details; I only imagined more of them.
The house the children had lived in, the buoyant smell of spring evenings seeping through the windows, the trees in the garden that they had planted themselves all rose up easily before me.
How the children would sing together the songs that their mother had taught them, how she read the Bible to them, how they kept their collection of birds' eggs on the sill, and how the boy would climb into his sister's bed on stormy nights.
The story was accepted by a prominent magazine.
I didn't call the dancer before it was published, nor did I send him a copy of the story.
He lived through it, and I made use of it, embellishing it as I saw fit.
Viewed in a certain light, that is the kind of work I do, Your Honor.
When I received a copy of the magazine, I did wonder for a moment if the dancer would see it and how it would make him feel.
But I did not spend very long on the thought, basking instead in the pride of seeing my work printed in the magazine.
I didn't run into the dancer for some time after that, nor did I think about what I would say if I did.
Furthermore, after the story was published I stopped thinking about the mother and her children who had burned to death in a car, as if by writing about them I had made them disappear.
I continued to write.
I wrote my fourth novel, and then a fifth, which was largely based on my father, who had died the year before. It was a novel that I could not have written while he was alive.
Had he been able to read it, I have little doubt that he would have felt betrayed.
Toward the end of his life, he lost control of his body and was abandoned by his dignity, something he remained painfully aware of until his final days.
In the novel, I chronicled these humiliations in vivid detail, even the time he defecated in his pants and I had to clean him, an incident he found so shameful that for many days afterward he was unable to look me in the eye, and which, it goes without saying, he would have pleaded with me, if he could have brought himself to speak of it, never to mention to anyone.
But I did not stop at these torturous, intimate scenes, scenes that, could my father momentarily suspend his sense of shame, he might have acknowledged as reflecting less on him than on the universal plight of growing old and facing one's death.
I did not stop there, but instead took his illness and his suffering, with all its pungent detail, and finally even his death, as an opportunity to write about his life and, more specifically, about his failings, as both a person and a father, failings whose precise and abundant detail could be ascribed to him alone.
I paraded his faults and my misgivings, the high drama of my young life with him, thinly disguised (mostly by exaggeration) across the pages of that book.
I gave unforgiving descriptions of his crimes as I saw them, and then I forgave him.
And yet, even if, in the end, it was all done for the sake of hard-won compassion, even if the final notes of the book were of triumphant love and grief at the loss of him, in the weeks and months leading up to its publication a sickening feeling sometimes took hold of me and dumped its blackness before moving on.
In the publicity interviews I gave, I emphasized that the book was fiction and professed my frustration with journalists and readers alike who insist on reading novels as the autobiographies of their authors, as if there were no such thing as the writer's imagination, as if the writer's work lay only in dutiful chronicling and not in fierce invention.
I championed the writer's freedom - to create, to alter and amend, to collapse and expand, to ascribe meaning, to design, to perform, to affect, to choose a life, to experiment, and on and on - and quoted Henry James on the "immense increase" of that freedom, a "revelation".
As he calls it, that anyone who has made a serious artistic attempt cannot help but become conscious of.
Yes, with the novel based on my father if not flying then at least migrating off the shelves in bookstores across the country, I celebrated the writer's unparalleled freedom, freedom from responsibility to anything and anyone but her own instincts and vision.
Perhaps I did not exactly say but certainly implied that the writer serves a higher calling, what one refers to only in art and religion as a vocation, and cannot worry too much about the feelings of those whose lives she borrows from.
Yes, I believed - perhaps even still believe - that the writer should not be cramped by the possible consequences of her work.
She has no duty to earthly accuracy or verisimilitude. She is not an accountant, nor is she required to be something as ridiculous and misguided as a moral compass.
In her work, the writer is free of laws.
But in her life, Your Honor, she is not free.
Some months after the novel about my father was published, I was out walking and came to a bookstore near Washington Square Park.
Out of habit, I slowed as I reached the window to see whether my book was on display.
At that moment, I saw the dancer inside at the register, he saw me, and we locked eyes.
For a second, I considered hurrying on my way, though I couldn't have said exactly what it was that made me so uneasy.
