On occasion, the two women went to lunch and she came home offended by some pettiness.
And he would say, "Why do this to yourself?"
He wanted to keep her from being hurt. He also wanted his wife and her friend to drift apart so that he never had to sit through another dinner party with the friend and her husband.
But after a few months the rift would inevitably heal and the friendship return to good standing.
He couldn't blame her.
They went back a long way and you get only so many old friends.
He leaped four hours ahead of himself. He ruminated on the evening in future retrospect and recalled every gesture, every word.
He walked back to the kitchen and stood with a new drink in front of the fridge, out of the way.
"I can't do it," he said.
"Can't do what?"
The balls were up in the air: water slowly coming to a boil on the stove, meat seasoned on a plate sitting on the butcher block.
She stood beside the sink dicing an onion.
Other vegetables waited their turn on the counter, bright and doomed.
She stopped cutting long enough to lift her arm to her eyes in a tragic pose.
Then she resumed, more tearfully.
She wasn't drinking much of her wine.
"I can predict everything that will happen from the moment they arrive to the little kiss on the cheek goodbye and I just can't goddam do it."
"You could stick your tongue down her throat instead of the kiss goodbye," she offered casually as she continued to dice.
She was game, his wife.
She spoke to him in bad taste freely and he considered it one of her best qualities.
"But then that would surprise her, I guess, not you."
"They come in," he said, "we take their coats.
Everyone talks in a big hurry as if we didn't have four long hours ahead of us.
We self-medicate with alcohol.
A lot of things are discussed, different issues.
Everyone laughs a lot, but later no one can say what exactly was so witty.
Compliments on the food. A couple of monologues.
Then they start to yawn, we start to yawn.
They say, 'We should think about leaving, huh?,' and we politely look away, like they've just decided to take a crap on the dinner table.
Everyone stands, one of us gets their coats, peppy goodbyes.
We all say what a lovely evening, do it again soon, blah-blah-blah.
And then they leave and we talk about them and they hit the streets and talk about us."
She slid her finger along the blade to free the clinging onion.
He handed her her glass. "Drink your wine," he said.
She took a sip.
He left the kitchen. He sat on the sofa and resumed reading an article.
Then he got up and returned to the kitchen and poured himself a new drink.
"That's another thing," he said.
"Their big surprise.
Even their goddam surprises are predictable."
"You need to act surprised for their sake," she said.
"Wait for a little opening," he said, "a little silence, and then he'll say, he'll be very coy, he'll say, 'Why don't you tell them?' And she'll say, 'No, you,' and he'll say, 'No, you,' and then she'll say, 'O.K., O.K., I'll tell them.'
And we'll take in the news like we're genuinely surprised- like, holy shit, can you believe she's knocked up, someone run down for a Lotto ticket, someone tell Veuve Clicquot, that bastard will want to know! And that's just the worst, how predictable our response to their so-called news will be."
"Well, O.K.," she said.
"When that happens, why don't you suggest they have an abortion?"
He chewed his ice and nodded.
"That would shake things up," he said, "wouldn't it?"
"Tell them we can do it right here with a little Veuve Clicquot and one of the bedroom hangers."
"Delightful," he said.
"I'm in."
The kitchen was small.
He would have done better to remain in one of the other rooms, but he wanted to be with her.
She was sauteing the garlic and the onion.
"He's O.K.," he said.
"They're both O.K. I'm just being a dick."
"We do this, what- at most, once or twice a year.
I think you can handle it.
And when they have the baby- "
"Oh, Christ."
"When they have the baby, we'll see even less of them."
"Holiday cards.
Here's our little sun-chine.
See our little sun-chine?
Christ."
"You aren't the one who's going to have to go to the baby shower," she said.
"How much you wanna bet they buy a stroller?"
"A stroller?"
"A stroller."
"A stroller," she said.
"To cart the baby around."
He put cheese on a cracker.
"For to cart the baby around in, yes," he said.
"And you, if you had a baby, there'd be no stroller, right, because it would be oh so predictable?
Absolutely no stroller?"
"I was thinking we could duct-tape the child," he said.
"It would be cheaper."
"Like a BabyBj?rn, but duct tape."
"Exactly."
"Would the baby face in or out?"
"If it was sleeping, in.
Not sleeping, kind of kicking its feet, wanting to see the world, duct-tape it out, so it has a view."
"Allowing the child to be curious," she said.
"Feeding its desire to marvel at this new experience called life."
"Something like that."
"The child must be so relieved that I'm barren," she said.
He left the kitchen. He stood in the living room with his drink, listening to the sounds of her cooking.
They should have invited Ben and Lauren, too, like last time.
Ben and Lauren were more his friends.
With Ben and Lauren there, time didn't move as it moved in hospital waiting rooms and the Midwestern churches of his youth.
But she had wanted it just the four of them this time, probably so that they could more freely revel in their big news, and there was a limit to how many times he could say, unprompted, "Hey, should we invite Ben and Lauren?"
At least he was doing Ben and Lauren a favor.
He returned to the kitchen.
"When they come in," he said, "let's make them do a shot, both of them."
"A shot?"
"Of tequila."
"Her, too?"
"Both of them."
"To sort of . . . fortify the baby."
"We'll force them somehow," he said.
"I'll figure it out."
"Better hurry," she said.
"All this talk of folic acid and prenatal vitamins.
Give me a break.
Do they think Attila the Hun got his daily dose of folic acid when he was in the womb?
Napoleon?"
She was going back and forth across the kitchen while he kept his drink close.
"I could go on."
"George Washington," she said, "a Founding Father."
"See?
I could go on.
Moses."
"I don't think she's going to be willing to do a shot," she said.
"We trick her somehow.
Tell her it's full of prenatal vitamins, and she shoots it down."
"Because she just graduated from the third grade," she said, "and she's blind and retarded."
"I'll think of something," he said.
He left the kitchen again.
On his way back in, he said, "O.K., I've got it."
He found the room empty.
Her wedding ring and the one with the diamond were on the counter, where she always put them before starting to cook anything.
The sink had filled with dishes.
On the stove, a big pot and a smaller one with a handle unfurled steam into the beige hood where the vent rattled.
The door of the cabinet under the sink hung open.
He checked the bathroom off the kitchen. He returned the way he'd come, through the apartment, in the unlikely event she had passed by without his noticing as he was sitting on the sofa.
He returned to the kitchen, to the animated appliances and stewing ingredients.
She came in through the front door.
"Where'd you go?"
"Took the garbage down," she said.
"I would have done that."
He had come up with a good approach to the evening, but he was no longer in the mood to present it.
Instead, he went over to her at the stove.
He threaded his arms around her waist as she stirred one of the pots.
Years earlier, they'd had a name for this hug.
He couldn't remember what it was.
He kissed her neck, then the back of her hair.
Her hair smelled of steam and shampoo and silk and wildflowers.
"What can I do?" he said.
"You can set the table," she said.
He set the table. He stood in front of the refrigerator with a new drink.
"So I've figured it out," he resumed.
"They bring the bottle of wine, right?
We thank them, we tuck it away in the kitchen.
They never see it again.
We start the evening.
We don't ask them what they want to drink.
Like it's just an oversight on our part.
Because I know him.
Even if she's not drinking because of the big news, he'll want a drink.
I tell him we ran out. I tell him we'll open their wine at dinner.
But then we don't.
We just have water for the table.
Then, in the middle of the meal- "
"You know, you should work for Al Qaeda," she said.
"- in the middle of the meal, I get up and go to the kitchen and I bring back a beer for myself.
I open it at the table and take a long drink.
What do you think?"
"Sounds promising."
"He says, 'Hey, got another one of those?,' and I'm, like, 'Oh, actually, this is the last one.'
And then I kill it.
Do you think they would leave?"
"Leave?
No."
"Really?
They wouldn't leave after that?
Where the hell are they, anyway?"
"They might never come back, but no. They would not leave."
"You know, they're good people," he said.
"Ultimately."
"She's my oldest friend," she said.
"And he can be very funny."
"You're right, he can be very funny," he agreed.
Later, he came out of the bathroom just as the toilet was completing its roar.
She was no longer in the kitchen.
He took another cheese and cracker. He walked past the dressed table to the living room.
She sat on the sofa reading the same magazine he had been reading.
He stood in the middle of the room and raised his hands.
"Where are they?"
"If there's one thing that's predictable," she said.
"But it's almost forty-five minutes."
"They'll be eating some very cold appetizers."
"Have you cooked the meat?"
"Everything but."
She casually flipped through the magazine.
There was no outrage or impatience.
She seemed resigned to waiting as long as it took.
"You should maybe call her," he said.
"Isn't this what you wanted?" she asked.
"Something unpredictable?"
She was on the phone, calling hospitals.
It was ten o'clock, and then it was ten-thirty.
She had tried to reach them a dozen times.
She'd sent texts and e-mails.
They hadn't picked up and they hadn't replied.
"Not if it interfered with dinner," he said.
"Nice," she said.
"Magnanimous and humane."
"Those fucking drips," he said, "have probably fallen asleep watching 'Friends' on DVD, for which they silence their phones and disable their BlackBerrys."
"Yes?" she said.
She was speaking into the phone now.
"O.K., thank you.
Can you take my number just in case one of them comes in?
Thank you."
She left her name and number and hung up.
"Is it really possible," she said. She was dialling the next number. "Is it really possible that you care about no one but yourself?"
