Research on adult - learned second language  has provided considerable insight into the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying the learning and processing of L2 grammar  –  . 
Of interest here , studies suggest that , despite the difficulties in acquiring L2 grammar , adult learners can approximate native - like levels of use and neurocognitive processing  –  . 
However , it is not enough to have attained such native - like levels . 
Crucially , it is also desirable to retain them , even in the absence of continued practice or exposure to the L2 . 
In fact , substantial periods  of limited or no exposure following L2 training are not uncommon , and may even be the norm  . 
Such a scenario may be found in different situations , including when one studies a language in a classroom and then stops taking classes  ,  and when one is immersed in a foreign language setting and then moves away  . 
In the present study , we examine the outcomes of such a period of no exposure on the neurocognition of L2 grammar : that is , whether a substantial period of no exposure leads to decreased proficiency and / or less native - like neural processes  , no such changes , or perhaps whether even higher proficiency and / or more native - like processing may be observed . 
Additionally , we test whether any such outcomes might vary as a function of the type of L2 training , in particular between classroom - like and immersion - like contexts . 
We are aware of six studies designed to investigate the effects of a substantial period of limited exposure following adult L2 training  ,  ,  –  , all of which were restricted to the examination of behavioral  outcomes . 
 . 
The six studies tested L2 learners after periods of 1 month to 50 years of limited L2 exposure , mainly on general language skills  ,  ,  ,  ,  , though also on more specific paradigms meant to target aspects of grammatical abilities  ,  or lexical abilities  ,  . 
These language measures were compared in most studies to the same measures in a different set of subjects who had not experienced a period of limited exposure  ,  ,  ,  , or to retrospective ratings of the same subjects  , with only one longitudinal study testing the same subjects before and after a period of limited exposure  . 
Across the studies , the periods of limited exposure followed either classroom training  ,  ,  ,  or mixed classroom and immersion training  ,  ,  . 
The training lasted varying lengths of time , apparently usually in the range of a few years , and resulted in seemingly varying proficiency levels  prior to the period of limited exposure . 
Overall , the results of the six studies have been taken to suggest the following . 
A period of limited exposure generally leads to attrition  of L2 performance or knowledge  ,  ,  ,  . 
Such loss has been observed after as little as a few months of limited exposure , e.g. , after a 1 - 7 month  or 6 month delay  , as well as after 2 years  , though in one case it was observed only by 3 - 5 years , and not earlier  . 
Although attrition may take place within the first few years , some studies suggest that it then appears to level off , with no further losses occurring  ,  . 
Higher levels of proficiency  may be associated with less attrition  ,  ,  ,  or even with no observed losses  . 
Moreover , one study found no changes at all in performance , across proficiency levels , after either 2 or 4 years of limited exposure  . 
Finally , in some cases a gain in performance has been observed : after 1.5 years of limited exposure in one study , particularly for L2 learners with immersion as well as classroom training  , and in another study after 2 years , though only for some abilities , such as listening and reading comprehension  . 
It remains unclear what might explain such gains , which have been attributed to motivation and to L2 experience during the period of ostensibly limited exposure  , or to factors related to general maturation , cognitive development , or continued academic training  . 
